# Crime-in-Vancouver
## 
#### I created this tool in order for people so people can make more informed decisions when parking in Vancouver. More studies, with data I do not have access to, need to be performed before any real conclusions can be made (for more information see the "Things to Note" section of the read.me)
#### Online dashboard can be found here:
[Online dashboard can be found here](https://lazar.adamovic.org/vancouver-car-break-ins-heatmap/)
#### -It shows a heatmap of car break-ins in Vancouver in the previous 12 months
#### -The black dots are paid city-parking (parking spots owned and operated by the city). You can turn this off by going to the upper left corner of the dashboard and de-selecting the layer 
#
## Things to Note:
#### This map can be a useful tool which tells the user where cars have been broken into, however, the data should be taken with a grain of salt. This map only shows the where the cars _where_ they were broken into, it doesn't show you where cars _were not_ broken into. I will go into detail about hidden circumstances which may skew the data.
#### Firstly, the map does not show you where people are likely to park their or how frequently cars park there. Cars could be more likely to be broken into in a specific area, simply because it is a popular spot to park. This is most likely true for the downtown region. This is something which is out of my control to fix as I do not have access to that data. Therefore, I cannot draw any definite conclusions from the data.
#### Another main issue is that I do not have access to data which describes the rules of parking for that specific street; resident parking, no-parking or temporary no-parking zones. 
#### This creates two problems. In regards to resident-only street parking,  some areas in Vancouver you can only park there if you are a resident of that street. However, if the residents of that street all have garages or drivesways on their property, they will most likely choose to park there, as not only is it easier, but it's also generally safer. Since the residents are not parking on that street, and the general public is not allowed to park on the street, the liklihood of a car break-in would decrase for that street. As a result, that street would appear to be a safer place to park, however, the liklihood of thefts from cars would be the same there as for the streets around it.
#### The second problem concerns the temporary no-parking zones. Some streets are designated no-parking zones during rush hour traffic. So on average they are less likely to be parked on by design. 
#### Another issues regarding the temporary is that certain streets could have been temporary no-parking zones for several months due to construction. This could skew not only the regular car break-in data, but also the seasonal data. Although the city may have data which describes these permanent and temporary no-parking restrictions, it is not open-access and therefore I have no way of accessing it and displaying it. 
#### Finally, although no definite conclusions can be drawn from the data, this map does provide some insight on the happenings of Vancouver, and it could be used to rationalize further study and research into this topic. I hope you found it useful and interesting.
